Copyright is a set of laws
that protects different kinds of intellectual creation.
Since the 18th century, it keeps a balance
between private incentive for creation
and public access.
Copyright protects the authors by making sure
they get compensation for their artistic,
literary or scientific work
for a certain period of time,
after which the work falls into public domain.
But recently copyright extension and scope
have become stronger and more complex.
Also, the different territorial characteristics of copyright laws
make it difficult to negotiate between countries.
And this is why,
in the creative economy,
a set of laws originally designed to protect authors
has turned more into a sort of currency.
So... how does copyright affect the cultural sector?
Consider this graphic explanation:
Right in the middle,
there are the original authors, the core creators.
Around them:
the producers,
agents,
programmers
and distributors.
These intermediaries assist you in your creative work,
helping you make it possible
and improving the way you reach your audience,
without having to bother with tasks you often don't like
or don't know how to do.
Sometimes creators themselves accumulate these functions.
You might find an artist who is also a producer,
an actress that is also her own agent...
but hardly the creator becomes a distributor.
And when they are, that means they probably became
superstars somewhere along the way...
This means that, in general,
core creators exchange their copyrights
for those intermediary services.
Because of their low income
they usually have a weak bargaining power
thus ending up with the smallest (if any)
chunk of revenues generated by their own creations.
Recalling the excessive supply of creative workers,
we can see that there are far more creators,
producers, agents or even programmers
when compared to distributors.
However, it's this thin layer of distributors
that has more power to enforce copyright and control revenues...
This means that, instead of protecting authors,
copyright has mostly been used by major businesses
to control cultural production
and who can have access to it.
So, are artists condemned to be either
under-recognized, poor workers
or rich, powerful superstars?
No.